{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;\red109\green109\blue109;\red155\green155\blue155;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12260\viewh14200\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Persona\
\

\f1  Cooper 
\f0 p. 158 (http://www.itu.dk/people/russel/B%F8ger/Pearson.-.The.Inmates.Are.Running.the.Asylum.pdf)\
\
http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=553473 bibitex\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs50 \cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs50 \cf0 The actual method that works sounds trivial, but it is tremendously powerful and effective in every case: We make up\
pretend users and design for them\
\
Personas are not real people, but they represent them throughout the design process. They are hypothetical\
archetypes of actual users. Although they are imaginary, they are defined with significant rigor and precision. Actually,\
we don't so much "make up" our personas as discover them as a byproduct of the investigation process. We do,\
however, make up their names and personal details.\
\
wiki: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persona_%28user_experience%29#cite_note-5\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs24 \cf0 A 
\b user persona
\b0  is a representation of the goals and behavior of a hypothesized group of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 users}}. In most cases, personas are synthesized from data collected from interviews with users. They are captured in 1\'962 page descriptions that include behavior patterns, goals, skills, attitudes, and environment, with a few fictional personal details to make the persona a realistic character. For each product, more than one persona is usually created, but one persona should always be the primary focus for the design.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 The benefits are summarized as (Cooper, 1999):\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Help team members share a specific, consistent understanding of various audience groups. Data about the groups can be put in a proper context and can be understood and remembered in coherent stories.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Proposed solutions can be guided by how well they meet the needs of individual user personas. Features can be prioritized based on how well they address the needs of one or more personas.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Provide a human "face" so as to focus empathy on the persons represented by the demographics.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs50 \cf0 \
\
http://www.uiaccess.com/accessucd/personas.html#ref1\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs24 \cf0 Personas are \'93hypothetical archetypes\'94 of actual users. They are not real people, but they represent real people during the design process. [{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.uiaccess.com/accessucd/personas.html#ref1"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 1}}] A persona is a fictional characterization of a user.\
The purpose of personas is to make the users seem more real, to help designers keep realistic ideas of users throughout the design process. Personas have proper names (that are often catchy and related to their user group name, for example, Hanna Reed-Smith, Human Resources Specialist) and are represented with pictures. Designers and evaluators refer to personas when considering design specifics; for example, "Would Hanna know to click on that button to add a new employee?" Personas put a name, face, and characteristics on users to keep the users in the forefront of design decisions.\
A persona includes specific characteristics, demographics, and experience levels from a user profile, for example, a specific hardware and software configuration. Additional information in personas are personal details such as behaviors, attitudes, motivations, and goals.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 http://www.uiaccess.com/accessucd/personas_eg.html\
Remember that people are diverse. Be careful not to assume that all users, including users with disabilities, use the product the same way. People use different interaction techniques, different adaptive strategies, and different assistive technology configurations. People have different experiences, different expectations, and different preferences. This persona is just one example of a user in this user group.\
\
\
\
http://www.usability.gov/how-to-and-tools/methods/personas.html\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0 \cf0 These representations should be based on qualitative and some quantitative {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.usability.gov/what-and-why/user-research.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 user research}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.usability.gov/what-and-why/web-analytics.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 web analytics}}. Remember, your personas are only as good as the research behind them. Effective personas:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Represent a major user group for your website\
{\listtext	\'95	}Express and focus on the major needs and expectations of the most important user groups\
{\listtext	\'95	}Give a clear picture of the user's expectations and how they're likely to use the site\
{\listtext	\'95	}Aid in uncovering universal features and functionality\
{\listtext	\'95	}Describe real people with backgrounds, goals, and values\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs50 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298

\b\fs36 \cf0 Benefits of Personas\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Personas help to focus decisions surrounding site components by adding a layer of real-world consideration to the conversation. They also offer a quick and inexpensive way to test and prioritize those features throughout the development process. In addition they can help:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Stakeholders and leaders evaluate new site feature ideas\
{\listtext	\'95	}Information architects develop informed wireframes, interface behaviors, and labeling\
{\listtext	\'95	}Designers create the overall look and feel of the website\
{\listtext	\'95	}System engineers/developers decide which approaches to take based on user behaviors\
{\listtext	\'95	}Copy writers ensure site content is written to the appropriate audiences\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298

\b\fs36 \cf0 Best Practices for Developing Personas\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Personas development belongs at the beginning of the project, as personas can inform site functionality, help uncover gaps, or highlight new opportunities.\
You may develop one or more personas for a project but limit yourself to the main audiences for the site. For any given project, creating only three or four personas is best. Remember that it is better to paint with a broad brush and meet the needs of the larger populations than try to meet the needs of everyone. The goal of personas is not represent all audiences or address all needs of the website but instead to focus on the major needs of the most important user groups.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319

\b \cf0 To ensure your personas are accurate representations of your users and have the support of your stakeholders throughout the process, you should:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Conduct {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.usability.gov/what-and-why/user-research.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 user research}}
\b0 : Answer the following questions: Who are your users and why are they using the system? What behaviors, assumptions, and expectations color their view of the system?\
\ls4\ilvl0
\b {\listtext	\'95	}Condense the research
\b0 : Look for themes/characteristics that are specific, relevant, and universal to the system and its users.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\b {\listtext	\'95	}Brainstorm
\b0 : Organize elements into persona groups that represent your target users. Name or classify each group.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\b {\listtext	\'95	}Refine
\b0 : Combine and prioritize the rough personas. Separate them into primary, secondary, and, if necessary, complementary categories. You should have roughly 3-5 personas and their identified characteristics.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\b {\listtext	\'95	}Make them realistic
\b0 : Develop the appropriate descriptions of each personas background, motivations, and expectations. Do not include a lot of personal information. Be relevant and serious; humor is not appropriate.\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\
LIBRO\
\
p.39\
\
In Ui design it is imperative to know to who the app is being designed for and what the users believe they want from an application.\
\
people or groups of people in an organization who use the application directly re referred to as the primary users, secondary users are people or groups of people who are not primary users but who are affected or influenced in some way by the computer system or who affect or influence its development.\
\
good practice: smaller user groups are easier to design for p.44\
\
p.48\
is a precise description of a user and what he or she wishes to do when using a system. Personas are not real; rather, they are imaginary examples of the real users they represent. In defining personas, Cooper recommends that you be as specific as possible about the \'93made-up\'94 details and also that you give the persona a name, as \'93[a] persona without a name is simply not useful\'94. (p.128)\
\
During the design process the persona is referred to by name rather than \'93the user + photo or  sketched caricature. All these details serve to make that persona a concrete person in the designer\'92s mind and in the minds of the design team.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720
\cf0 http://www.interaction-design.org/encyclopedia/personas.html\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 benefits are seen as ranging from increasing the focus on users and their needs, to being an effective communication tool, to having direct design influence, such as leading to better design decisions and defining the product\'92s feature set (Cooper, 1999; Cooper et al, 2007; Grudin & Pruitt, 2002; Long, 2009; Ma & LeRouge, 2007; Miaskiewicz & Kozar, 2011; Pruitt & Adlin, 2006).\
A persona is not the same as an archetype or a person. The special aspect of a persona description is that you do not look at the entire person, but use the area of focus or domain you are working within as a lens to highlight the relevant attitudes and the specific context associated with the area of work.\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.interaction-design.org/references/authors/lene_nielsen.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Nielsen}}, Lene (2012): 
\i Personas - User Focused Design.
\i0  Springer\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240
\cf3 Project developers need to understand how users approach their products from the product\'92s infancy, and regardless of what the product might be. Developers should be able to describe the user of the product via vivid depictions, as if they \'96 with their different attitudes, desires and habits \'96 were already using the product. In doing so they can more clearly formulate how to turn the product's potential into reality.\
\
http://www.interaction-design.org/encyclopedia/personas.html#heading_The_use_of_personas_html_pages_12414\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298

\b\fs36 \cf4 30.3.2 \cf0 4 areas of importance, 10 steps to follow\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0\fs24 \cf0 The persona is ideally shaped according to user studies, and used for ideation. But the process varies; sometimes the idea comes first, and the persona is created later and used to verify or enrich the idea (Chang et al., 2008). Studies have shown that one of the main difficulties in the method is to get project participants to use it (Browne, 2011). In the following, I present a process model that sets out to cover this problem throughout the process. It contains four different main parts: data collection and analysis of data (steps 1, 2), persona descriptions (steps 4, 5), scenarios for problem analysis and idea development (steps 6, 9), and acceptance from the organization and involvement of the design team (steps 3, 7, 8, 10).\
The 10 steps cover the entire process from the preliminary data collection, through active use, to continued development of personas. It is an ideal process, and sometimes it is not possible to include all steps in the project (Nielsen, 2011; Nielsen 2012).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\i \cf0 1. Collection of data. 
\i0 In the first step, you collect as much knowledge about the users as possible. Data can come from many different sources, even from pre-existing knowledge in the organization.\

\i 2. You form a hypothesis.
\i0 \'a0Based on the first data collection, you form a general idea of the various users within the focus area of the project, including in what ways the users differ from one another.\

\i 3. Everyone accepts the hypothesis.
\i0  In this step, the goal is to support or reject the first hypothesis about the differences between the users. This happens by confronting project participants with the hypothesis and comparing it to existing knowledge.\

\i 4. A number is established.
\i0  In this step, you decide the final number of personas.\

\i 5. You describe the personas.
\i0  The purpose of working with personas is to be able to develop solutions based on the needs of the users, which you do through preparing persona descriptions that express enough understanding and empathy for the readers to understand the users.\

\i 6. You prepare situations.
\i0  As already mentioned, the method is directed at creating scenarios that describe solutions. To that purpose, a number of specific situations that could trigger use of the product are described. In other words, situations are the basis, or the precursors, of a scenario.\

\i 7. Acceptance is obtained from the organization.
\i0 \'a0It is a common thread throughout all 10 steps that the goal of the method is to involve the project participants. This means that as many as possible should participate in the development of the personas and that it is important to obtain the acceptance of the participants of the various steps. That is why all should contribute to and accept the situations. In order to achieve this, you can choose between two strategies: You can ask the participants for their opinion, or you can let them participate actively in the process.\

\i 8. You disseminate knowledge.
\i0  In order for the method to be used by the project team, the persona descriptions should be disseminated to all. It is, therefore, important early on to decide how this knowledge is to be disseminated to those who have not participated directly in the process, to future new employees, and to possible external partners. The dissemination of knowledge also includes how the project participants will be given access to the underlying data.\

\i 9. Everyone prepares scenarios.
\i0  As previously mentioned, personas have no value in themselves. Not until the moment where the persona is part of a scenario - the story about how the persona uses a future product - does it have real value.\

\i 10. On-going adjustments are made.
\i0 \'a0The last step is the future life of the persona descriptions. The descriptions should be revised regularly, approximately once a year. There can be new information, or the world could change and new aspects may affect the descriptions. Decisions have to be made whether to rewrite the descriptions, or add new personas, or whether some of them possibly should be eliminated.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs50 \cf0 \
\
\
}